I got into freshman chemistry, and I guess I was never so thankful for C in my life as that.
What about the math?
You said you didn't have- Didn't have any calculus, but we didn't have that much math required.
It wasn't until graduate school that I had to have calculus, so.
Oh, okay.
So that did a problem, and I did well in Algebra II and Algebra here.
Physics was hard, but it was a sophomore course, and I'd never had any physics.
Did you and your buddies go to class every day?
Oh, yes.
Saturdays, too.
Saturday morning.
But, I mean, you attended.
Oh, yes.
There wasn't any place else to go.
I mean, you weren't going to stay around the dorm.
Was there a place that you could, during the day, if you didn't have anything scheduled,
didn't have a class that, was there any place you could kind of escape from all the routine?
Out of the library and the why.
And where in the library would you go?
In the big reading room.
In the big reading room?
Okay.
Yeah.
Because I don't think we had access to the stacks in those days.
I think it was strictly in the reading room.
And let's make believe that you were truly tired, worn out.
Where could you go to take a nap?
That, I don't remember, but I presume there.
You see people.
Yeah, dove in there.
The juniors and seniors came back.
Then all they did when they got here after that first week was they just added to the burden of you fish.
Is that right?
Yes.
What are some of the, there must have been some,
some pranks that you remember during the meal time?
What are some pranks you recall in your outfit?
I don't remember when this happened, but the practice of drowning out a whole dorm started.
And those dorms had two fire hoses
at each end of the building, so there were eight fire hoses.
One night at supper, somebody turned on all eight of those, and I think it was darn eight, and you can imagine the commotion that that caused.
In fact, there were stories that had cracked the foundation.
I don't know if that was true or not, but that was an example.
Oh, we had old study lamps with a bowl and a shade, and oh, some people would take some cheese and put on the light bulb in the upperclassmen's room, and.
For fragrance?
Yes, and one time we.
Was it Limburger cheese?
Yeah, and you could do the same thing on a muffler too, on a manifold on a car.
This didn't happen in our outfit, but in one outfit, they caught a cat and fed it ex-lax and put it in our classmate's room.
So there were lots of things that went on.
The, that first, that first fall, was there anything academic
that the faculty encouraged or discouraged that you now realize was important to you and your... I don't think of anything.
As I say, being encouraged to take an advanced course in English literature was by Professor Allen was
was one example, but we were just so, so having to concentrate so hard on our studies that we wouldn't have really thought about anything like that.
Did you have the impression the faculty cared about you, you and the other students?
Not in my freshman year.
I didn't get a feel.
As I advanced, I felt that.
Was there anybody you turned to that first semester or so for advice?
Well, I had a little advantage.
My aunt, my mother's older sister, had a girl that she took, I'd say took in.
She was teaching English in school at that time and this, had this girl and she didn't have any children and so she came and lived with her and so she became
kind of like an adopted daughter.
And she became an English teacher, and then she was one of the women who came here in the fall of 46 as English teachers.
Claire Huggett was one.
This was Margaret, Margaret Lemon at that time.
Lemon?
Frank Pierce was one of them in the group.
Anyway, I could go see her and, you know, I always felt that I had an opening there.
And then I was active in the YMCA.
Describe how you got involved in that.
Just got involved right away.
Mr. Cashin took me under his wing and Gordon Gay.
Describe those two men and their manner and their style.
Kind of hard to describe.
Mr. Cashin was kind of a gruff.
He'd been a coach, you know, and he was kind of gruff, but he took a liking to me, and I felt like I was one of his boys.
Gordon Gay I knew at church, too.
By the way, that was something that
That really helped me in the church and the aspect of being able to go to church.
They encouraged that Sunday night and Wednesday night and Sunday morning.
You say they, who is they?
The core.
No, we were free to go to church services.
That was... And was one of the blessings of that also that you could escape from... Exactly, exactly.
But at church, we had Gordon Gay, Fred Bryson,
Spike White were all teachers in the Sunday School class, and of course we had such a small church that we knew everybody, A&M Methodism, and we had that old tabernacle while we met.
So between the Y and church, you know, I had an opportunity for solace and comfort.
You said the old tabernacle, where was it?
It was,
Well, it's, you know, where our current sanctuary is.
It's, it was parallel to University Drive at the end of that.
In other words, between that first masonry building that was built was the Gay Building.
Excuse me.
And it was built just behind the old tabernacle.
The tabernacle's left there and the tabernacle was torn down when the sanctuary was built so it was right between there.
So there was a frame building?
Mm-hmm.
Okay.
Have any guess as to what the congregational number was then?
Probably 150, 200.
But as I say with
with people like Fred Bryson and Gordon Gay and Spike White.
Got lots of at least moral support.
What was Mr. White's duty then on campus?
He was basically in charge of student activities.
He was under Penny, Penworthy, but he was basically in charge of, as I say, student activities.
And so Wednesday night, Sunday night.
Sunday morning.
And then Sunday morning Sunday school.
Did you Methodists have a nickname?
Everything else had a nickname around here, didn't it?
I don't remember.
What other churches were at the Northgate area?
Well, the Presbyterian and the Catholic and the Lutheran.
The Baptist.
Baptist, of course, First Baptist, yeah.
And then at, on the south side of the campus was the Episcopal already there?
The Episcopal Church was there, yeah.
As you're getting in this first fall semester, getting involved in everything, describe getting ready for a football game for a freshman.
Well, of course, first thing I had to do was make the banners, the spirit signs, and that was always a big job.
Where did the raw materials for those come from?
I don't remember.
Did you all have to buy them?
Oh, yes, sure.
Well, there were two, used to be two hardware stores at Northgate, I presume.
I remember, I'm sure we bought paint up there.
And where the canvas came from, I don't know.
But who paid for it?
Oh, we paid for it out of the outfit funds.
Oh, out of the outfit funds.
Yeah.
Okay.
No, each outfit had a new time.
And were the freshmen to do all this?
Oh, yes.
Who designed them?
Basically we did, as I recall.
I don't know what the involvement of the upperclassmen was, but I'm sure they had to prove.
And these were done for every home game?
For every game.
And where did you display them?
Off the side of the dorm.
And then after that game is over, they're thrown away?
Did anybody ever try one that was goofy or perhaps in bad taste?
Oh yeah.
You tried to do everything you could.
I remember one before Baylor gave.
Mr. and Mrs. Bates and their son Master.
Oh my goodness, oh my goodness.
I mean we, we did all kinds of things.
Did anybody, did one outfit ever do anything to somebody else, another outfits?
Well not like they did later.
I don't remember anything happening but
Later it used to, it became a habit to try to destroy the,
some of them, in fact, even throwing a mullethod cocktail on them and burn them.
But we didn't have any of that.
Of course, then we had bonfire time at Thanksgiving, well, before Thanksgiving.
That started about the first of October.
But let's back up and go to those first football games.
Yelp practices in your freshman year were held where?
No, on the steps of Goodwin Hall.
Goodwin, and at what time?
They weren't at midnight, were they?
Well, before home game, we had the midnight.
Oh, is that right?
Yeah, practice.
Before every home game.
But they were, as I recall, on Tuesday and Thursday nights at 7.30, I want to say, on the steps of Goodwin home.
Do you remember going to your first game?
Oh, yes.
Describe.
Well, I remember standing there in the sun all afternoon yelling,
Self-horse.
And then after the game, what did you and your buddies do for fun?
I don't remember.
Didn't go back to the Norman study.
We may have, we may have had it off because I remember going to
downtown Bryan taking the bus.
That was the only picture show, you know, the Palace Theater.
Well, we had the Queen and the Dixie at that time too.
Cost 15 cents go to, on the bus downtown, and movie cost 25 cents, hamburger cost 25 cents.
Do you remember what your budget was for spending money?
No, but I have a little account book somewhere here, a little pocket book where I had some stuff like that, the reason I know it.
My tuition, as I recall, my tuition and fees, room and board, were something over $900 for the year.
And did you earn some of that or?
Who paid that?
Well the first money I ever earned and that went toward education.
Dad told me if I'd learned to milk a cow he'd give me a calf so every year he'd give me a calf that was mine and I'd
Would be about a hundred dollars.
Would you then sell that calf?
Mm-hmm.
Okay.
And in high school I was in FFA and we showed calves and I made money that way.
So I had a... So did you have a... I had some money when I... Did you have a... You had a little account then when you came.
Now, was that money for your spending money or was that to pay room and board?
Both.
Okay.
And was there any definition from your parents as to how much you could spend?
No.
They were... There wasn't anything to spend it on.
And as you know, there were no banks then.
and so we would deposit our money at the controller's office and what's now the system building and then go down and draw on that as we needed it during the year.
On a Saturday night then what were the wild things that some of the people were doing your first year or two other than going to the movie?
Well, some of them would go on beer busts, stuff like that.
Old different places off campus.
It used to be the Clay Pits, did you ever hear the Clay Pits?
People go down there and that was another place after they cracked down on the board where people would go to beat the freshman's tail.
Now, the clay pits were down Welborn Road to the west.
Yeah, toward the river.
About how far down Welborn and how far west?
I've forgotten where.
I think it was between Welborn and Millican.
Okay.
And then maybe a couple of miles west.
Too far to walk.
Oh, yeah.
So, rode in somebody's car.
And these, these were old excavation,
Yeah, it was a, I think it's product, I forget what it was, but it was, I want to say something like talcum powder or something like that.
And it was private property.
Yeah, but there didn't seem to be any control on access.
And there was beer.
I think there were some signs, but nobody ever enforced it.
There was beer and skinny dipping.
A good swimming area.
What else went on down there?
You know I'm so naive I didn't know.
I never went down there but once or twice.
Went down swimming one time later and I think as I recall when we got handles beaten off they took us down there.
Did you and your buddies ever hear about any chicken ranch at LaGrange when you were younger?
Oh, yeah.
Is that right?
As far as y'all were aware, what was it?
It was a whorehouse.
It was?
Okay.
LaGrange and Brenham.
And Brenham?
Yeah.
Brenham or Sealy.
Sealy.
There were two.
Brenham, I think, was Brenham and... Did some Aggies go to the... LaGrange was where the Texas people went.
And Brenham was where the Aggies went.
But apparently in the stage production, Aggies get credit for the chicken ranch.
Because Ann Margaret is, you know, they're doing it in Dallas and Houston now and she gives credit.
All right, back to a football weekend.
So you had Yale practice on a Friday night, then describe the Saturday of a home game.
On a home game?
Of a home game.
Well, of course, we're getting ready for the activities in the morning, and then right after lunch, we'd march into Cowell Field and have the game.
And if we won, which wasn't very often,
We'd try to catch the yell leaders and dump them in the pool.
And then Saturday night was kind of a relaxed time.
Yeah, we were free.
Describe a core trip when there were Saturday classes.
Well, we were excused.
Oh.
Were those classes canceled?
I don't remember.
It must have been canceled because
I just don't remember anything about it.
Describe some of your court trip experiences in the four years.
The worst one was my senior year.
We played over at Austin and I don't know why I was alone, but after we marched and before the game I was walking
probably on the campus but just north of the capital in my boots and I really had an uneasy feeling.
I really felt, that happened to me twice when I was a senior.
One time I was going home and you know we had train service in those days and in Houston
I had a layover between the train from here and the one to South Texas, and I was in my boots.
I don't know why I was wearing my boots, but it was 10, 11, maybe midnight, and I walked out in front of the station, and there used to be that big plaza in front of Union Station there.
Oh no, it wasn't Union Station, it was Southern Pacific Station.
There were some, some blacks out there.
And I, something just told me, get back in the state and get out of here.
Those were two times my senior year when I felt uneasy.
But you ask about experiences, we, uh, um, it's all kind of a blur.
There were enough cars that we could get rides.
And, uh,
It was a thrill to hear the band strike up and march down whichever street it was in your uniform.
Of all the court trips you made, which was your favorite place to go for a court trip, looking back?
I wouldn't say any, I don't have any feel one way or the other.
I had a roommate from Dallas and stayed with them and we went to Dallas.
And then, you know, Waco and TCU and Austin, those were the four.
One year.
May have been freshman year.
We played Villanova in San Antonio.
At the uh.
Alamo Stadium?
Alamo Stadium.
And we marched there.
I knew that was my freshman year.
How did the crowd in any of those cities respond when the A&M Corps was marching down the street?
Oh it was always a big gal.
That's right.
No.
No we weren't.
No meanness then?
And none on the parade route.
No, it was always, oh Houston, we always went to Houston too.
And where did you all have, on a court trip, where did, was there a Saturday night party?
There had to be some fun.
I don't really remember much.
Just, just don't.
Did you have any, did you have any dates that freshman year?
Yes.
Where'd you, how'd you get those dates?
That's for her time.
Well, for the freshman ball, I'd invited a girl from home
and she canceled at the last minute and so I ended up taking Margaret Lemon.
That may have been the only opportunity that I had.
Did you ever have a blind date with a Tessie?
No.
No, didn't know anybody that knew any tests.
A lot of people did have blindness then, didn't they?
Let's go back to class.
As far as you knew, what were the guidelines for classroom dress and behavior and so forth?
Well, of course.
In the Corps that was, that was set.
I mean you wore a uniform to class and you were expected to, to behave yourself the whole time.
Now the veterans dressed it, dressed more casually of course, but nothing like you have today with gimme caps and so forth.
But
Like professors took a role in those days and we were a different generation.
You just didn't question your seniors or your superiors.
You knew what to do, how to behave and never heard of anybody talking back to a prof.
Anything.
So at the, you go home Thanksgiving, how'd you get home?
You remember?
Hitchhiked.
Describe hitchhiking from here to Orange Grove.
Well, you went to west to Giddings and then south through Yoakum and down to Beeville and then to Mathis and Orange Grove.
How did you know where?
Might have three or four
different rides meantime or on the trip.
Of all of your hitchhiking experiences share some happy or and if there were any that weren't happy some experiences of H&M Hitchhiking.
I didn't do that much probably not over four or five times.
I didn't have any bad experiences.
I haven't yet gotten any of them.
In 170 interviews I've not yet heard a bad one.
A fellow in my outfit said that he was picked up somewhere down south of here by a man who made advances on him.
I've had one of those.
That's the only time I ever heard that.
And too much drinking occasionally by the driver of the car and maybe driving fast.
Those are the only bad things.
Yeah I once or twice felt there was some recklessness in it but never really serious.
You always wore your uniform?
Yes oh yes.
Did you put up your thumb?
Yes.
Okay never used a sign?
Sometimes yeah.
And about how long did it take to get from here to Orange Grove normally?
Probably, well, normal time was about five hours, I mean driving, and probably about seven, eight.
Did you ever get stranded anywhere?
No.
Kind of lost or left?
A couple of times thought it would be, but ended up.
Okay, so you go home Thanksgiving.
Do you remember what you said to your family or friends about what it was like?
I really don't.
And were, and those roommates, were they gone by then?
I didn't see them at that time.
No, I mean, were they?
Oh yeah, they left six weeks.
Okay, so are you then by yourself?
Oh no, no, I got another, excuse me, I should have added, they were my original roommates.
The three of us came together and roomed together.
and when they left then the other two that I mentioned earlier became my roommates.
And then you go home Christmas and at the end of the semester in January how did you feel when you got your grades?
Relieved, particularly in that chemistry grade.
And your high school prepared you reasonably well except for the courses they didn't offer?
Well particularly in English and my mother was a very strict
disciplinarian in that sense.
She insisted to learn English.
And you certainly knew that the grades were going to be mailed home.
Oh yes.
Did you change any as a result of your first semester did you change anything academically the second semester?
No.
No I changed outfits went into the Air Force ROTC unit.
Why?
Well, I just preferred the Air Force over the infantry.
Now, did y'all call it Air Force then?
Yes.
Since it was the old Army Air Corps?
It was Air Force by then.
Oh, okay, okay.
Yeah.
Now, what outfit was that?
A Air Force.
And did it have a nickname?
No, we were too new.
Oh, okay.
The Air Force units were formed in January of 47.
Oh, so that's brand new.
And did you Air Force guys think that you were the cream of the crop?
I don't have any feeling that way.
About, do you have any idea what percentage went Air Force?
Probably 10 percent.
I don't think it's more than that.
We had, we had probably five or six outfits so it wasn't a small, small unit, a small group.
Uh, what going on?
Dorm 6, I believe.
So you were still at the, in the new dorms.
Yeah.
Did you all consider them the better dorms than the folks had at Northgate?
I don't remember.
That wasn't a factor.
Any, any field.
See, none of the older, old, old dorms were there.
The,
And there were more veterans that came at mid-year for the second semester.
College View, I presume, was very busy.
And were those old World War II barracks that had been moved from somewhere?
They were moved, yeah.
And we had them on.